New API action: security:searchUsersByCredentials (#1948)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/2/api/controllers/security/search-users-by-credentials/index.md

---
code: true
type: page
title: searchUsersByCredentials
---

# searchUsersByCredentials

Searches users credentials for the specified authentification strategy.

<SinceBadge version="auto-version"/>

---

## Query Syntax

### HTTP

```http

> URL: http://kuzzle:7512/credentials/<strategy>/users/_search

Reviewer: This URL seems weird to me, I'd rather look for something more similar to the classic user-search API endpoint, like `http://kuzzle:7512/users/_search`. Searching users is what this all is about, isn't it? 

But you probably got to this for some good reason: can anybody give me some context?

Reviewer: Ok makes a lot more sense

---
code: true
type: page
title: searchUsersByCredentials
---

# searchUsersByCredentials

<SinceBadge version="auto-version"/>

Given a credentials related search query, returns matched users' kuid.
Since credentials depend on the authentification strategy, so do the search query.

::: info
If you are using a custom strategy plugin, you must first implement the optional search method in order to use this action.
:::

::: warning

> This method is not intended to be exposed to the end user because of sensitive data that represents an exhaustive list of users ids.

Author: ```suggestion
This method is not intended to be exposed to the end user. A full list of users ids should be considered as sensitive data.
```

:::

---

## Query Syntax

### HTTP

```http
URL: http://kuzzle:7512/credentials/<strategy>/users/_search
Method: POST
Body:
```

```js
{
  "bool": {
    "must": [
      {
        "match": {
          // example with the "local" authentication strategy
          "username":  "test@example.com"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Other protocols

```js
{
  "controller": "security",
  "action": "searchUsersByCredentials",
  "strategy": "<strategy>",

>   "body": {

Reviewer 2: IMHO the body should be what we call a `searchBody`, to allows users to pass either `query` and/or `sort` properties

    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "match": {
            // example with the "local" authentication strategy
            "username":  "test@example.com"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  },
}
```

---

## Arguments

- `strategy`: authentication strategy

---

## Body properties

- `query`: Uses the [ElasticSearch Query DSL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.4/query-dsl.html) syntax. Properties on which the query applies depend entirely on the authentication strategy.

---

## Response

Returns a search result set, with the following properties:

- `hits`: Array of matched users. Each hit has the following properties:
  - `kuid`: Users unique identifier

>   - `...`: Other properties depend on the authentification strategy

Author: ```suggestion
  - `...`: Other properties depending on the authentification strategy
```

---
code: true
type: page
title: searchUsersByCredentials
---

# searchUsersByCredentials

<SinceBadge version="auto-version"/>

Given a credentials related search query, returns matched users' kuid.

> Since credentials depend on the authentification strategy, so do the search query.

Author: ```suggestion
Since credentials depend on the authentication strategy, so do the search query.
```

---

## Arguments

- `strategy`: authentication strategy

### Optional:

- `from`: paginates search results by defining the offset from the first result you want to fetch. Usually used with the `size` argument
- `size`: set the maximum number of documents returned per result page
- `lang`: specify the query language to use. By default, it's `elasticsearch` but `koncorde` can also be used.

---

## Body properties

Properties on which the query applies depend entirely on the authentication strategy.

### Optional:

- `query`: the search query itself, using the [ElasticSearch Query DSL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.4/query-dsl.html) or the [Koncorde Filters DSL](/core/2/api/koncorde-filters-syntax) syntax.
- `sort`: contains a list of fields, used to [sort search results](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.4/search-request-sort.html), in order of importance

If the body is left empty, the result will return all available users for this strategy.

---

## Response

Returns a search result set, with the following properties:

- `hits`: Array of matched users. Each hit has the following properties:
  - `kuid`: Users unique identifier

>   - `...`: Other properties depending on the authentification strategy

Author: ```suggestion
  - `...`: Other properties depending on the authentication strategy
```
